# Compartment Model for Pharmacokinetics of Chemotherapeutic and Tumour Dynamics
This model was developed to quantify and visualize the effects of the standard-of-care Stupp protocol on varying levels of resistance in glioblastoma (GBM) tumours. During treatment, the patient first undergoes surgical resection, followed by combinatorial radiotherapy and chemotherapy, and then a regimen of adjuvant chemotherapy. The component of interest is the chemotherapy: how it flows through the body and how it influences the fluxes between tumour sub-populations. 

Compartment models are useful when modelling the movement of drugs or populations between states, represented by aggregates which may change in size because of various inputs and outputs, producing a system of ordinary differential equations (ODEs). Compartment models assume a well-mixed, constant population which is better represented by the pharmacokinetic model because a fixed amount of the drug diffuses through the body. The assumption of a constant population does not stand when modelling cancer as it is a disease characterized by uncontrolled cell proliferation. A logistic proliferation term was therefore used to model population growth, taking population-regulating factors into account.

The model was solved numerically through the Runge-Kutta method over 600 days, 
then plotted. The simulation restarted at each dosing event to account for the drug's absorption into each of the body's compartments and subsequent influence on the tumour compartments. The effects of differing values of the initial sensitive cell fraction $k_s$ and DNA repair rate $\gamma$ were particularly investigated to determine when, why, and in whom the Stupp protocol is likely to fail so that new therapeutic targets may be investigated to improve patient outcomes.

## Stability of the Compartment Model
The stability of this model was confirmed by finding the fixed points and substituting them into the Jacobian matrix, allowing the nonlinear system to be linearized near equilibrium points. The eigenvalues of the Jacobian matrix are used to determine stability, where $\lambda>0$ denotes an unstable equilibrium, $\lambda<0$ denotes a stable equilibrium, and $\lambda=0$ is inconclusive. An equilibrium manifold described by the equation 
$\Sigma = \lbrace (S, R_A, R_P) \in \mathbb{R}^3 \mid S + R_A + R_P = 120 \rbrace$
indicating that any combination of tumour subpopulations summing to the carrying capacity K = 120 mm is an equilibrium. For all points on $\Sigma$, the Jacobian yields strictly negative eigenvalues, confirming that the manifold is asymptotically stable.
